---
title: "Down to Morocco"
---

Our flight was already late. Something to repair before even starting the trip. We knew we would arrive after dusk. We passed the border control, got the keys of the rental and it was already dark outside. Always be careful of what you don’t see at night. Near Agadir, they added flashing lights on every road. That is convenient. It feels like an alternative future. But once they’re gone, anything can happen, dogs, bikes, people or even turtles.

This year, as winter in Brittany gloomed our souls, we decided to head south like the birds. We wanted a destination with surf, culture and stuff to do with the kids. Took the map out and pointed down to Morocco. We found a flight from Brest to Agadir and decided to stay north of it in the small village of Tamraght. We travelled with friends and their kids. This makes every trip a whole adventure, whatever happens. I packed a board short, a pair of pants, a warm sweater for the evening and my 3/2. Oh lord it feels good to not have to carry boots and a hooded wetsuit. I only packed film and my trusted Leica M6. I know what to do if it gets stuck. It is mechanical. No need to turn it off and on again, a good slap is all it takes. 

Nothing says welcome like those keftas and lemons. We immersed immediately into the generous food culture Morocco has. We had the luxury of having Sadia cooking us abundant breakfast and sharing her stories the whole week. A word of warning, what they consider a meal is two or three for any other person. The real goal was slowing down in Tamraght. Waking up, wandering around town, enjoying life. The Tamraght coffee game is on point. It has more coffee shops than half of Bretagne. If you like good coffee, you’ll feel at home. Most of the new coffee shops are locally owned. The two historical ones (Daydream and Hey Yallah) are women owned and they both come from each side of America. Visit them all, taste all the coffees, feel hyperactive.

We travelled north and south and east to visit what we could. We found ourselves in tourists’ hell and breathtaking landscapes. Sometimes it only takes 100 steps. We had the luck to come to Morocco after it rained. Rain did a lot of damage, and I hope the northern part of Morocco will be fine. The drive to Paradise Valley is a proper scenic road. Around Paradise Valley, rain turned everything green and it had enough water to deserve its name. The first pools draw all the tourists, but if you keep walking, you end up in less crowded areas that are wonderful. We did pause by the river, played in it, had lunch next to it. 

Another goal was to surf and we sure did with my son. He caught more waves than I did and got help from local surfers. I am still not capable of travelling with my board. Don’t ask why, I don’t know. We rented foamies and enjoyed the waves at Devil’s rock. We had a lot of luck, the swell dropped and the sun came out. It was too big and cloudy before that. We surfed a few hours daily while the rest of the crew enjoyed the beach. When we were not surfing, we were watching good surfers bottom turns and long peeling waves. Bretons are everywhere. Mathis and I have been following each other for a while. He lives around Saint-Brieuc. But it took us a flight to Morocco and a few texts to finally meet. We connected after lunch hoping to share waves. That didn’t happen this time. Instead, we stopped a few times around banana point and I was delighted to catch him on some good waves. I travelled without a water camera nor a zoom, so the only pictures I got there were from the cliff with my iPhone. Pretty sure it is because of Mathis’ style on that long wave. 

If you don’t know that area, it is an incredible coastline from Agadir to Essaouira. We drove along it and stopped a few times just to watch the ocean do its thing and people reacting to it. This time, we didn’t go up to Imsouane. Imsouane has become the local Eiffel Tower. Buses unloading tourists by the minute, everyone there to say they've been. We stayed around Tamraght and Taghazout. On that stretch alone, you can enjoy a lot of great waves. You can find everything you need to begin surfing there. If there are no waves, you can find enough skateparks to surf the concrete waves. Local kids are killing it as much as the tourists, and the park has boards at members’ disposal. I love it. Huge shoutout to Taghazout skatepark! Pay them a visit.

While I go to Morocco for surfing, my wife gets there for their extraordinary ceramics. We have tons of bowls and mugs at home. But I know we will always bring more. I brought back a few coffee cups from the coffee shops. Thanks Daydream for the mug and the flat white cup. We also visited Saïd’s ceramics shop, suggested by the people at Layers Coffee. And of course, we bought some ceramics, but the real deal is that Saïd offered everyone a little gift from his stock. They love kids, they wanna share their culture, their craft with you. Before saying goodbye, Saïd made sure to ask everyone their name and introduced himself. 

Bslama and til next time.
